Add `The osu! YouTube legacy of ReeseWasHere` news post (#9477)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2023/2023-05-01-the-osu-legacy-of-reesewashere.md

---
layout: post
title: "The osu! YouTube legacy of ReeseWasHere"
date: 2023-05-01 10:00:00 +0000
---

Before livestreaming and player YouTube channels were widespread, you could rely only on one man with a camera...

![](/wiki/shared/news/2023-05-01-osu-legacy-of-reesewashere/banner.jpg)

> If you were even slightly engaged with the osu! community between 2015 and 2016, you probably heard of [ReeseWasHere](https://www.youtube.com/@ReeseWasHere), seen some of his YouTube videos, or at the very least seen the saying "Reese get the camera!!" whenever a top player would set a nice score. If you ever saw the ["mom get the camera"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mLRbZJS5A_E) meme from the Call of Duty community, Reese would be the osu! equivalent to that. So without further ado, let's get into the history of this legendary community member and see what they are up to now!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you were even *slightly* engaged with the osu! community between 2015 and 2016, you might've heard of [ReeseWasHere](https://www.youtube.com/@ReeseWasHere). You may have even seen some of his YouTube videos, or at the very least caught wind the saying *"Reese get the camera!!"* at the mention of an amazing high score (in homage to the [similar meme from the Call of Duty scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mLRbZJS5A_E)). So without further ado, let's get into the history of this legendary community member and see what they are up to now!
```

Author: ```suggestion
If you were even *slightly* engaged with the osu! community between 2015 and 2016, you might've heard of [ReeseWasHere](https://www.youtube.com/@ReeseWasHere). You may have even seen some of his YouTube videos, or at the very least caught wind of the saying *"Reese get the camera!!"* at the mention of an amazing high score (in homage to the [similar meme from the Call of Duty scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mLRbZJS5A_E)). So without further ado, let's get into the history of this legendary community member and see what they are up to now!
```

Reviewer: the of is there? not really following

Author: What you suggested:
![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/24534022/b613d611-adea-4ba4-9926-38edf9e7f5df)
I edited it to:
![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/24534022/e542f80e-c902-469b-904d-001e3cc61721)

Just wanted to check if you agree with that?

Reviewer: 'caught wind of' is correct, though I'm fairly sure that's what I suggested too

Reese originally found osu! by watching a League of Legends streamer called [BoxBox](https://www.twitch.tv/boxbox), who used to play osu! while waiting in queue for another game. He liked the fact you can play anime songs, and even without any rhythm game experience he gave it a try. After playing for a fair bit and dabbling in mapping, he realized that what he really loved doing is spectating top players, watching their streams on Twitch and sharing epic moments with the osu! community. In his own words:

> I really wanted to focus on liveplays because I wanted to capture them in the moment. I wanted it to be where you could relive the moment it happened just by watching the video, so I always incorporated Twitch chat or the ingame chat when I could. And even for those that weren't there live you could still feel like you was there by seeing people's reactions.

> As if by divine intervention, the initiative to share amazing moments perfectly coincided with [Cookiezi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/124493/osu)'s (now known as chocomint) unban after being banned for 2 years, and he was sure to capture that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As if by divine intervention, the initiative to share amazing moments perfectly coincided with [Cookiezi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/124493/osu)'s (now known as chocomint) return to the game after being banned for 2 years, and he was among the first to capture the moment:
```

Author: I figured saying unban could be an issue, but it was more factual than just the "return" seeing as they were playing for a few months before getting the unban, I would compromise by saying "return to online play"

Author: ```suggestion
As if by divine intervention, the initiative to share amazing moments perfectly coincided with [Cookiezi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/124493/osu)'s (now known as chocomint) return to the online play after being banned for 2 years, and he was among the first to capture the moment:
```

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/EUSDdnNO0Ss" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> The perfect storm of the community being hyped more than ever after Cookiezi's return to online play and Reese being in college with a lot of free time provided him with the opportunity to recording anything Cookiezi related as it happened, it seemed that he was always online and ready to record and would usually be the first person to upload a new top play from either Cookiezi or any other top player at the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Emboldened by the hype from the community and finding himself in college with a lot of free time, Reese seized the opportunity to record almost anything Cookiezi related as it happened. For a time, it seemed that he was always online and ready to record at a moment's notice, usually ending up the as the first upload a new top play from either Cookiezi or any other top player at the time.
```

> Many iconic plays that have forever been engraved into osu! history have been captured during this period, such as the [1st ever FC on IMAGE -MATERIAL-](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vm-zilvu8F0), [1st ever FC on Everything will freeze](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5d432cQoT-c) and the [1st ever 700pp score on Blue Zenith](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UYNpkDrCWtA), from which "727" meme was born and still refuses to die to this day ([thanks Aireu](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AaAF51Gwbxo&t=72s)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many iconic plays that have forever been engraved into osu! history were captured during this period, such as the [1st ever FC on IMAGE -MATERIAL-](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vm-zilvu8F0), the [1st ever FC on Everything will freeze](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5d432cQoT-c) and the [1st ever 700pp score on Blue Zenith](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UYNpkDrCWtA), from which "727" meme was born and still refuses to die to this day ([thanks Aireu](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AaAF51Gwbxo&t=72s)).
```

> Unknowingly to him at the time, the YouTube channel was starting to turn into a time capsule of a simpler time, what some consider to be the "golden age of osu!". At the time the hype at an all-time high with fierce competition for the #1 spot, a legendary player returning & the mapping meta shifting to "pp mapping" allowing for pp records to be shattered, the community was buzzing with excitement any time people such as [Rafis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2558286), [Angelsim](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1777162) & Cookiezi would log on and would flock to either watch their stream or spectate them in-game. Foundations were also being laid for "replay recording" YouTube channels such as [Circle People](https://www.youtube.com/@CirclePeople) that would start uploading in 2016, that would end up "competing" for subscribers, and being the first one to upload the latest plays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unknown to him in the moment, Reese's YouTube channel was starting to turn into a time capsule of a simpler era, what some commentators today consider to be the "golden age of osu!". At the time, the combination of the hype towards fierce competition for the #1 spot, a legendary player returning and the mapping meta shifting to "pp mapping" (allowing for *big* pp numbers) was all spurring the community into a score-craving frenzy. 

High-achieving players such as [Rafis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2558286), [Angelsim](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1777162) and Cookiezi would all log on to a sea of viewers and spectators. Foundations were laid for practices like "replay recording", paving the way for YouTube channels such as [Circle People](https://www.youtube.com/@CirclePeople) to pick up the torch later in 2016, and spurning a period of fierce competition between channels fighting to be the first to snatch the latest big play.
```

To my question of whether he still keeps up with the community, he responded that he participated in r/place last year and has kept up with the development of osu!(lazer), and is eagerly awaiting for it to be the new main client. It was suggested that he will return at some point, but that the contributions would more likely be via coding, rather than uploading videos once again.

I hope that this write-up hit older players with a wave of nostalgia as to how things used to be. I also hope that newer players had fun learning about this small, but meaningful period in osu! history, and how it has paved the way for the likes of [CPOL](https://www.youtube.com/@cpol_v1/videos) to continue carrying the torch for replay channels on YouTube.

Even though Reese is no longer holding the camera, his legacy will always live in the community in some capacity.

*You can view the full text interview I did with him via [this link](https://gist.github.com/0x84f/61c96e7c18a77eccad7e543674bbf0e9). Thank you [Tanza3D](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10379965) for the news post banner!*

> — 0x84f

Reviewer: ```suggestion
—0x84f
```
